Add arrow advantages figure and caption for clarity (#44)
WayScience/ome-arrow-benchmarks: README.md

The summary figure below uses these saved benchmark artifact sizes:

| Figure label | Dataset purpose/design                                       | Image tensor shape    | Images | TIFF ref (MB) | OME-Zarr (MB) | OA NT Parquet (MB) |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------- | ------ | ------------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
| 3D nuclei    | CellProfiler tutorial 3D nuclei segmentation volumes         | TCZYX=1x1x100x258x258 | 4      | 50.88         | 20.87         | 23.43              |
| JUMP         | Single field from JUMP Cell Painting plate BR00117006        | TCZYX=1x1x1x1080x1080 | 3      | 7.65          | 5.49          | 5.72               |
| NF1          | NF1 fibroblast Cell Painting subset with morphology profiles | TCZYX=1x1x1x904x1224  | 15     | 10.06         | 9.52          | 12.51              |

> | Ped. atlas   | Pediatric cancer atlas Cell Painting subset with profiles    | TCZYX=1x1x1x1080x1080 | 6      | 11.65         | 9.20          | 10.00              |

Reviewer: I recommend combining this table and the previous. There's some redundant information. I think the relevant columns to retain are purpose, tensor shape, tiff ref

Author: Thanks - addressed

Size and experimental-design considerations:

- These are small representative OME-IRIS subsets, not full plates or population-scale screens. They are useful for isolating format and access-pattern behavior under controlled, reproducible conditions.
- The 2D Cell Painting datasets test common high-content screening access patterns: multi-channel field-of-view reads, image metadata scans, and profile-to-image metadata joins. NF1 and Pediatric Cancer Atlas include morphology-profile tables, so they exercise cross-modal image/profile access rather than image-only I/O.
- The 3D nuclei dataset tests volumetric image access with larger per-image payloads and a different tensor shape, which is why its artifact sizes are larger despite fewer source images.
- Artifact sizes should be compared within each dataset row. Differences across rows reflect image count, image dimensions, dimensionality, bit depth, channel count, and compression behavior, not only the storage format.

## Key findings

> Read this section for a quick summary. The individual benchmark sections below provide the full picture.

> - **OME-Arrow reads and writes faster than OME-Zarr, which matters for image-profiling workflows.** OA NT (OME-Arrow nested table) Parquet writes 2.6–3.4x faster than OME-Zarr and reads 20–50% faster when reading all images in a dataset. OA NT Vortex is 6–14x faster than OME-Zarr for multi-image reads. In image-based profiling pipelines - where a single Cell Painting experiment may involve thousands of images - faster multi-image reads directly reduce the wall time of feature extraction, QC, and model training. For random single-image access, OA NT Parquet is slower than OME-Zarr, but OA NT Vortex and Lance are both faster. OA DS (OMEArrowDataset) Parquet is the slowest OME-Arrow variant but remains comparable to OME-Zarr.

Reviewer: "image-profiling" is kind of a strange term. 
```suggestion
- **OME-Arrow reads and writes faster than OME-Zarr** OA NT (OME-Arrow nested table) Parquet writes 2.6–3.4x faster than OME-Zarr and reads 20–50% faster when reading all images in a dataset. OA NT Vortex is 6–14x faster than OME-Zarr for multi-image reads. In image-based profiling pipelines - where a single Cell Painting experiment may involve thousands of images - faster multi-image reads directly reduce the wall time of feature extraction, QC, and model training. 
- For random single-image access, OA NT Parquet is slower than OME-Zarr, but OA NT Vortex and Lance are both faster. OA DS (OMEArrowDataset) Parquet is the slowest OME-Arrow variant but remains comparable to OME-Zarr.
```

- **OME-Arrow enables queries that OME-Zarr cannot, and fits existing data science tooling.** Because images and feature profiles are stored together in a single Arrow table, downstream tools can filter on metadata, join profile rows to pixel data, and run SQL or Arrow compute expressions without opening individual files. At plate scale this removes a whole class of file-management overhead that per-directory formats like OME-Zarr require. Arrow and Parquet are standard formats in data science tooling - [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org), [Polars](https://pola.rs), and [PyArrow](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/) all work with OME-Arrow tables natively, without special adapters. This also means profiles and images share one type system and one file, replacing the two-format world (feature Parquet + image directories) typical in Cell Painting pipelines today.

> - **Profile-to-image joins are fast.** Joining feature rows to image metadata via an OME-Arrow nested table takes ~4 ms for ~15 k repeated morphology-profile rows - comparable to a plain Parquet path join (~3 ms). The small overhead buys structured, queryable image metadata in place of opaque file paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Profile-to-image joins are fast.** Joining feature rows (i.e., morphology profiles) to image metadata via an OME-Arrow nested table takes ~4 ms for ~15 k feature rows - comparable to a plain Parquet path join (~3 ms). The small overhead provides structured, queryable image metadata in place of brittle and often opaque file paths.
```

- **Pre-converting removes the join at query time, at the cost of upfront conversion.** When profile and image data are co-located in a single OME-Arrow table, metadata reads drop to ~1 ms because no join is performed at query time. Pre-conversion is worth considering for read-heavy workloads where the upfront cost amortises quickly.
- **Chunk-level Zstd-1 is the practical compression default.** Across all tested OME-IRIS datasets, chunk-level Zstd-1 achieves strong size reduction with minimal read overhead. Doubling compression to Zstd-6 shrinks files further but increases write time without meaningfully cutting read time.
- **Reuse the `OMEArrowDataset` handle.** Keeping the handle open across reads is marginally faster than reopening per call, with the clearest benefit on random single-image reads. The difference is small in the tested datasets but the pattern is consistent.

![OME-Arrow benchmark advantage summary](figures/ome_arrow_advantage_summary.png)

> **OME-Arrow accelerates image profiling I/O while adding relational access.** This summary derives from the saved benchmark tables below rather than rerunning experiments. Panels A-B normalize OME-Zarr timings against OME-Arrow and show 6.8-14.7x faster bulk reads with the OME-Arrow nested-table Vortex backend and 1.7-3.4x faster writes with the OME-Arrow nested-table Parquet backend. Panel C shows that OME-Arrow Parquet storage remains comparable to OME-Zarr across representative OME-IRIS datasets. Panels D-E focus on the NF1 Cell Painting join benchmark: 15,000 repeated morphology-profile rows are joined to image metadata, not a full population-scale screen. OME-Arrow performs this join in ~4 ms, while OME-Zarr does not provide a native relational profile-to-image join; converted OME-Arrow metadata scans are 8.6x faster than converted OME-Zarr metadata scans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**OME-Arrow accelerates image analysis I/O while adding relational access.** 

- Panels A-B compare OME-Zarr timings against OME-Arrow and show 6.8-14.7x faster bulk reads with the OME-Arrow nested-table Vortex backend and 1.7-3.4x faster writes with the OME-Arrow nested-table Parquet backend. 
- Panel C shows that OME-Arrow Parquet storage remains comparable to OME-Zarr across representative OME-IRIS datasets. 
- Panels D-E focus on the NF1 Cell Painting join benchmark: We perform a 15,000 feature rows join to images. OME-Arrow performs this join in ~4 ms, while OME-Zarr does not provide this functionality; converted OME-Arrow metadata scans are 8.6x faster than converted OME-Zarr metadata scans.
```

Can you clarify what a "scan" is

> These speedups arise because OME-Arrow stores image payloads, metadata, and profile-linked identifiers in Arrow-compatible columnar tables rather than separate directory-based image stores plus external path indexes. This reduces file traversal, object traversal, and format-conversion overhead during bulk reads, writes, and metadata scans. Apache Arrow's contiguous columnar buffers also support zero-copy data access and SIMD-friendly execution, creating a path toward CPU/GPU acceleration because downstream tools can operate on memory layouts already suited for vectorized and accelerator-backed computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These speedups arise because OME-Arrow stores image payloads, metadata, and profile-linked identifiers in Arrow-compatible columnar tables rather than separate directory-based image stores plus external path indexes. 
This reduces file traversal, object traversal, and format-conversion overhead during bulk reads, writes, and metadata scans.
Apache Arrow's contiguous columnar buffers also support zero-copy data access and SIMD-friendly execution, creating a path toward CPU/GPU acceleration because downstream tools can operate on memory layouts already suited for vectorized and accelerator-backed computation.
```

Breaks the NF1 experiment into individual operations across four panels: query time, in-memory result size, rows returned per query, and benchmark artifact storage.

> **Query time (top-left):** path joins and OA metadata joins are both in the low-millisecond range for ~15 k repeated morphology-profile rows. The pre-converted OA metadata scan is fastest. Payload operations - materializing full pixel arrays - are 10–40x slower than metadata operations and dominate the right side of the bar chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Query time (top-left):** path joins and OA metadata joins are both in the low-millisecond range for ~15 k morphology feature rows.
The pre-converted OA metadata scan is fastest.
Payload operations - materializing full pixel arrays - are 10–40x slower than metadata operations and dominate the right side of the bar chart.
```
